On June 26th, 2019, in Kaluga, Russia, mass searches were carried out in the homes of
peaceful believers. Two of Jehovah's Witnesses, Roman Maknov and Dmitri Kuzin, were arrested
simply because of their religion.
I heard a commotion on the street. When I went out, I saw two masked men in the courtyard.
I took the keys for the gate and opened the door. Several more men were there. My daughter came out,
she was barefoot, and they made her stand next to me on the courtyard flagstown. It was drizzling.
I asked the let the child put shoes on. He said, later.
The believer, Roman Maknov, was handcuffed, even though in no way was he ever aggressive or disorderly.
At the same time, another group of security forces burst into Dmitri and Svetlana Kuzin's apartment.
I was hearing this room at home, watering my plants, and I heard my husband unlocking the door.
I went out of the room and saw a bunch of people. My husband had obviously been knocked face
first to the child floor as he came in. His hands were handcuffed behind his back.
Yet another group of armed law enforcement officers raided the home of 87-year-old Olga Virovkinna.
There was a full-swat team in camouflage. No warrant was shown. They demanded, get up.
I said, I can't, I'm in firm. My blood pressure went up to 200 over 115.
According to the believers, during the searches, publications from the federal list of extremist materials were planted in their homes
and their rights were violated.
I heard Dasha scream, this was not in my room, explain to me how it got here.
And I heard my husband's voice saying, this was planted.
Just that afternoon, I was vacuuming under the bed, and there was nothing there.
No one identified himself, no documents were shown. The search began at 9 in the evening,
and lasted until about 430 in the morning.
But for camouflage security forces to burst in on old, infirm people, that's unbelievable.
It's quite interesting. In order to deal with an elderly woman, our law enforcement officers come in mass, wearing masks and carrying weapons,
what cowards, and these people claim that they are actually fighting extremism.
After the searches, Roman Makhnyov and Dmitri Kuzin were taken to the FSB building.
When Papa was taken away, the only thing I managed to whisper to him was that I was proud of his integrity.
And then they took him away, and I felt sad.
I was scared.
When they brought Roman to the FSB building, he was handcuffed to a radiator in some sort of utility room
and was kept like this until he was called for questioning in the morning.
It is noteworthy that several hours earlier, during the searches, an ambulance was called for Roman Makhnyov.
Roman became very ill. Dasha started to scream. The FSB called an ambulance, and it came quickly enough.
He was given medication and then he felt better. Roman was arrested on the 26th, and they didn't feed him until the 29th.
Roman Makhnyov was given no food for three days. They said, well, he could eat whatever he brought with him.
Interesting. I have filed complaints with various agencies.
On June 28th, two days after their arrest, the Kaluski District Court sent Roman Makhnyov and Dmitri Kuzin to a detention center.
I hope that people will realize that my dad is not guilty of anything, and he is not a criminal.
Therefore, I hope that soon he'll be back, and we will be together again.
The believers do not agree with the charges, and they intend to seek justice.
I don't know if we'll be able to, but I'm determined to fight to the end to help my husband to support him.
I very much hope that common sense will prevail, and that the authorities will finally realize that we do not present a threat to society, much less to the state.